Your normal chair is off, um, uh, examining the rest
of the, the South America.
Um, so look, I think, um, we will just get underway
and then perhaps if you could introduce yourselves
and then, um, and then talk to us,
and then I'm sure there will be some
questions from the members. Right.
Thank you very much, Chad. Um, and good morning chair.
Good morning. Um, members of the committee, um,
and thank you for this opportunity to brief you on the
Ministry of Defense's long-Term Insights briefing,
how technology innovations are likely
to influence New Zealand's defense capabilities beyond 2035.
Thank You. Um, I'm Anton Youngman.
I am the, um, deputy Secretary of Strategy Management
and assessment of the Ministry of Defense.
Mm-hmm. And with me today is the, uh, ministry's Director
of Strategy management, who, um, works with me
and who led the development of this briefing is all arts.
Um, so, as you know, long-term insights briefings aims
to provide the public with impartial analysis
of the long-term trends, risks,
and opportunities facing New Zealand.
Um, and it's well documented
and understood that New Zealand is facing, uh, one
of the most challenging and dangerous strategic environments
for decades, uh,
not least from intensifying strategic competition,
including in our region.
But coupled with that, you've got emerging technologies
that are rapidly evolving, the character of conflict,
changing how defense forces organize
and equip for themselves and altering the security
threats to the country space.
So we at the Ministry
of Defense chose this briefing about future technology
because it directly relates to the, one of our kind
of core functions, which is
to provide advice about significant, uh,
defense capability investments, as well as
to procure the major defense capabilities.
But while this is a Ministry of Defense briefing,
we have benefited greatly from the technical expertise
of the New Zealand Defense Forces Science, um,
and technology team, um, that they've been, um, they've
provided invaluable technical
input into this briefing as well.
The briefings also have broad input across government
agencies as well as the public
and industry via two rounds of public consultation.
Our research identifies four key themes
that will influence defense capabilities beyond
that 2035 horizon.
Um, and we, we talk about 'em in the power of data,
human machine teaming, next generation effectors
and expeditiary sustainment technologies.
The briefing also highlights three shifts, um,
that carry operational policy
and system level implications for defense.
Um, a a key point to note, though, in keeping
with the purpose of the long-term insights briefings,
our work as a research piece, um, and it,
and it looks to inform broader discussion
and as an input into future discussions,
it does not recommend specific capabilities
or foreshadow specific, uh, defense purchases.
This research, though, is already being used in the review
of the defense capability plan, um, into the design
of defenses Technology accelerator, as well
as in itself is a, is a deliverable
of the defense industry strategy.
Now, chair and committee members, we've got an A three, um,
just to hand out, um, if those have it, you already have it.
I've got a small one, but it might be useful for I've got
Just pass them all Around.
Possible you printed them there. Yeah. Coming other way.
There may be.
This is technology at its time.
This is, this is, I wouldn't be a public servant
if I wasn't handing out.
Just have some handouts. Yeah.
Um, so, so this here is, is is, um,
what, um, talked about, there are four key themes
that we've highlighted through this research
as well as three shifts.
Um, I'll just, um, spend a minute, just a minute on, on each
and then open up for questions on
each, if that, if that works.
Um, so the first, um, thing that we have is
around the power of data.
Um, now this sets the scene for the rest of the briefing
as one of the main messages of our research.
So the ability of defense forces to collect
and analyze data at speed will increasingly be the key
determinant of military advantage.
That is the key point of our
Research.
Now, this will involve defense capabilities,
having the ability to sense
and collect data as well as the digital infrastructure to
transmit and store that data, as well as the systems
and algorithms that are required to turn
that data into insights for decision makers.
Um, an example of this in the New Zealand context could be
the monitoring of New Zealand's large maritime area.
So in page, um, 19 of our, of our briefing, we have this,
this, this kind of visual
of persistent surveillance, um, in there.
Um, and in that, in that picture it talk, it shows
having satellites, high altitude, unc crewed platforms,
surveillance aircraft, um, uh, UNC crewed surface
and underwater vessels, as well as with land based radars.
And all of these working in sync together
to collect information
that delivers comprehensive surveillance coverage.
Now, that example itself talks about the front end
capabilities, but our analysis highlights the,
the critical importance of middle
and backend, um, technologies.
Um, so for example, the digital infrastructure, um, as well
as the software that conducts that analysis.
So in this new world,
and using this kind of surveillance example,
we see the quality of software
and algorithms will be
what dictates the effectiveness of this.
Essentially flipping that perception, if you like,
of the software being an enabler of these hardwares to
where the software actually defines the capability
that defense forces have.
Sorry, I, I want just in, I'm looking at the time
and chair if you're happy, but we've only got
Half an hour. Yeah. And I'd
love to geek out on this for a few hours,
but can I think a few of us
Would like to ask some questions? Absolutely. So if we
Can skim through 30
Seconds on the four points and then maybe we could Okay.
Well, I, um, yeah, happy to open up, um,
ask any questions particularly about that data one
that I've just highlighted now, if that's, that works.
Uh, I think just maybe finish off
The four bits quickly and Okay.
Okay. So know where we are.
So the second area is human machine teaming a key?
It there is, that is about the, um, the interaction
between humans and intelligent machines.
Obviously advances in AI
and machine learning, robotics, autonomous system, a set
to revolutionize this space.
The one key thing I would note about human machine teaming,
and we've talked through that, there's multiple
spectrum examples of what, um, could be done there
and I can answer those in the questions.
Um, but the one key point I would note here is
that human machine teaming, um,
while it possesses significant potentials, um, highlight,
uh, our research shows, it is also the most uncertain,
encompassing and epically challenging piece of,
of theme all the way through this.
The, the third area is next generation effectors,
in essence, that you can think of those
as anything defense forces use that can, um,
create an effect, effect
that could be kinetic or non-kinetic.
So think kinetic guns
and missiles, non-kinetic is like jamming
of digital systems and so on.
Mm-hmm. Um, the one thing, um, again,
we've got many examples in, in the briefing itself,
but again, our research, one of the key points
that we talk about here is that with these new tech, uh,
new capabilities in this space of effect is they need
to be very, very carefully designed to comply
with international and domestic law.
We highlight that as one of the key questions in that space.
And then finally on sustaining expeditionary forces, um,
that is a significant challenge for all defense forces.
Um, but especially so for New Zealand.
Um, partly
because our, our forces operate often such
so far away from home.
Um, it talks there.
Uh, our research talks about increasing kind of, um,
electrification of defense forces
and having some of the, these kind
of on the frontline portable
and dispersed production as well as storage of energy.
But one of the words
of caution we talk about in this space is, um,
whilst electrification may be possible
for smaller defense capabilities, for larger capabilities
that are needed to transport kind
of heavy loads quickly over long distances, that is,
that is something that is,
we can't see within this timeframe.
And then, Alright, so they are four themes.
Happy to open any questions. Thank
You, Tiano.
Yeah, I mean, you were saying earlier around, um, um,
making sure that the system design is adheres
to domestic international law.
How are you gonna do that? I mean, technology is, you know,
neutral, fast.
Um, so how, how you gonna, I mean,
you can't really program that stuff in.
So how, how will you, how
Will that, what, how will that look?
So, um, the, I'll, I'll probably use an example of, um,
here in the human machine teaming space.
'cause that's where I brought up, um, that point.
The, um, one of the, um, one of the key challenges,
particularly in the advent of AI
and machine learning is that you've now got the ability of,
um, machines able to compete
and even conduct action, um, themselves.
Something that historically
with previous merger capabilities, that that wasn't case.
It's by default. Um, whilst machines have been in use
with defense forces for a very, very long time,
the action itself was always
by under a human accountability.
So what this research does, it doesn't get into any
of the solutions as such.
This is a long term. We're saying that this is gonna be, uh,
already is, but it's going to continue
to be a growing challenge
and something that through the design of the capabilities
needs to be thought
through much more carefully now than it ever previously did.
It just, we're all seeing the movies and they went bad.
That's what, well, if I may just supplementary,
I made mad chair the challenge with legislation
and regulators 'cause that's our role Yeah.
Is keeping up with the way that technology works,
but also keeping up with warfare of, my question to you is,
and you don't have to answer this right now
'cause I respect that it's not necessarily in aligned
with this, is do we have the foundational legislation
to make sure that we are able to, uh,
govern effectively in the spaces
of war in particular modern warfare?
And secondly, are our systems nimble enough
to make regulatory change?
'cause that's what our job is, to make sure that we do abide
by the law and international law and standards.
Um, as you say, I, I can't specifically ask that.
However, what I will say is this is exactly the type
of questions that this research is pointing to
and saying, we need to have this conversation.
We are looking at a longer term horizon here of 2035.
And the reason for doing this type of long term research
now is to say these are the types of conversations
that that, that we need to have.
Sure.
Um, it's fascinating.
Uh, it's kind of exciting really, some
of the stuff in the C five RT space that you've got
and the technology that's out there.
Even now, having just visited a local drone place in, um,
cryptos in Bloomington is, is incredible.
Uh, and I, and I understand the content you're saying about
having deeper knowledge so
that you can have the best decision making advantage,
but then you've gotta actually go and execute operations
and that needs people on the ground or it needs platforms
or, or combat systems in the C five construct.
And I just worry that we are looking at a really
complex advanced world-leading system as a,
as a solution here
that we are gonna talk about and never deliver.
And, you know, how long has network enable Army been going
on for True, and, and what's actually been delivered?
How long did we spend, we spent half the,
well the initial plan for NH 90 was spending half
of its life doing introduction to service.
You, you get eight NH s for the price
that you probably could have had twice as many
twin engine Iroquois.
And sometimes you just need stuff out there doing stuff.
So to, to take your example of the, of the ocean, you know,
we might be able to afford one thing that's underwater
and one thing that's in the sky, actually
that's not gonna cover it, that's gonna give you really
complex, beautiful, refined solution for that one bit.
But the guys over here, so at what point do we say, actually
to us it's important that we just need agility.
We need, uh, redundancy, we need multiple, um,
deployable units, which, which won't all be people.
I get the machine thing, I get the platform thing,
but at what point do we go actually that that's cool,
but we are small and we've got limited resources, so
how are we gonna use them for the greatest combat effect?
Yeah. I, I think, um, um, so obviously part
of this research is looking at into the
long term deliberately.
So, so isn't looking particularly at current state
or current, um, capabilities,
but two things I would say is
that the research dash shows it is an absolute.
And so this isn't about,
like our first area is talking about harnessing the power
of data and it talks about the criticality
of the underlying, um, kind of digital infrastructure
and the algorithms, but it's an, and with those capabilities
and that trade off needs to occur.
One of the key points that we make in this briefing is not
to lose sight of the importance
of the digital infrastructure
and the, the software advantages, not just the capabilities.
The, the second point I would note is that, um,
under the human machine team, um, feeding,
we are talking about, um, it's, it's a different role
for defense personnel in, in this, in this long-term future.
It's a different role. It's, it's moving, um,
potentially away from less kind of in the field work
and more into that kind of tuning
and training systems, interpreting the outputs,
making decisions and ensuring adherence
with kind of law and doctrine.
So it's kind of a different role in this longer term
future that we're seeing.
So it's not a, it's not a less defense
personnel in this world.
It is just a different role
That we're, but, but, but doesn't Ukraine teach us
that actually we've gone back to, uh, world War I
with some technology rather than
Some Technology with some war
and that, that they are, you know,
colonels in the field are just going out
and buying the nearest cheap drones
so they can see something, it's gonna get shot down pretty
soon, but just give me some imagery
because yes, your point is absolutely valid.
We need the data and that gives commands critical insights
and decision making ability.
But you need just lots of stuff
and you're gonna need people out there
and there will be some stuff that technology will never do
for you that you need actual boots on the ground.
And, and I just worry that we've, this is great in isolation
and this looks great in the office,
but you know, know you up to First Battalion
and ask them what they need and they'll say what?
Gimme a couple more hundred people in a,
in a bunch of bullet basically.
Um, and and I don't think we ever get away from that, do we?
No. And again, this, this,
this research talks about it being an you still need that,
that kind of exquisite
and that that that kind of, um, the, the capabilities
that you are talking about on the frontline, it's
how do they supplement?
And you use the example of Ukraine, that was something
that we looked at as part of, part of this, particularly
that quick learning loop that
that's occurring on the frontline of, um, yeah.
Um, um, yeah, frontline of Ukraine.
Um, and again, it still shows again that point of it's both
this, this, this shouldn't be seen.
I would never recommend anybody
to make investment decisions both based solely off this
Briefing. So I guess my
finals, if I can, um, chair is, is,
is does it, does it say that in the briefing and,
and where is the work that says
we need all this, this is great stuff.
If you can deliver this, like, hats off, man, this is great
and, and please take me the task on this and,
and tear my argument apart.
But where is the bit that says alongside this,
the second parallel railway track, um, is here's the work
that that is gonna enable us to go from 4,000 soldiers today
to 8,000 in the future.
To go from 2000 sailors to, you know, enough
to man the number of ships we need to, you know,
go from 2,400 aviators to whatever it might be.
Where's the, where's the, where's the parallel bit
that says this is how we actually get more people.
And so
That is where you look at the parallel
of the defense capability plan.
That is where we are talking about the defense capabilities.
And particularly in that, um, the, the, the 2025 date,
the Defense State Capability Plan talks about the critical
investments that are needed over the four year period,
also has an eye out over a 15 year period,
which this overlaps at the end of to try
and influence future reviews and iterations.
So I think what you are asking for there is
what is in the defense capability plan.
The, the key point is,
is when you think about defense investment that is, um, um,
described through the defense capabilities plan,
there's multiple different aspects of what will define
how much and what is being procured with the first one,
really the primary one being the,
the strategic environment is that's being faced also.
Then you've got the state of kind of the NZ DFS assets and,
and infrastructure and so on, as well
as technology innovations that are occurring.
So this one is only looking at the third, third angle,
but the defense capability brings all of those bits in
to talk about what is needed today critically as well
as going out into the future.
Thank you. I, I get that.
I'm, I'm, I, I think I'm also hinting about at just sort
of the culture, the ethos that says actually we need
to be flexible, we need to be agile, we need
to be easy to move.
And that's not about the platforms,
it's not about the technology,
it's actually about the approach that we take.
But I I go on again, this is fascinating. Thank you. Oh,
I think I'll just make one comment there.
I think what, what happens with these insight briefings,
and we see this all the time as we jump to the so what
Next? Absolutely.
Um, and, and how are we implementing
and what are we doing to support it
and where's the system shift and how does that work?
So, um, I think you're absolutely right.
But, uh, and I, but I accept where you're at too,
but this is part of a suite of things that will need
to happen along the way to make that work.
Um, honorable
Ade Thank you man, chair.
Um, it's good Dan. It is fascinating
and one
of the challenges when people speak towards technology in
particular in warfare is the, uh,
increasing usage of cloud systems
and hyper cloud systems, et cetera,
which under one attack in the most recent strikes in Iran
or in the Middle East, has struck a data center, uh,
that has all but crippled what they,
and then compromised data
and everything else that's stored in the cloud.
Um, everything
that you've just mentioned in this report speaks to what,
from my limited te my team's are better at technology than
I, um, speaks towards predominantly cloud-based systems.
Um, you know, do you see in 2035 New Zealand having
that capability to sustain its own cloud-based systems
or, uh, are you looking towards
how we might partner with others?
Um, yeah, um, really good question.
And I think the, um, the importance of remaining interal
with partners is gonna be key.
It is today and it will continue to be, um, again,
it's highlighted through there.
However, we do, um, through it talk about how the health,
the long-term insights briefing,
it does talk about the needing to continually balance that
cost with sovereignty with, um,
legality and social license.
We mentioned that about two or three times. Yeah.
It's an important balance.
So I I I, I can't say New Zealand
or with partners that they are four
angles that this research shows.
You've got to continually, um, yeah, review that.
And whilst that is done, um, today with other capability
as capabilities change, you've still got
to ask those same questions.
It's just a different capability
that you're asking questions on.
If I may supplementary manager. Yes. Yes.
Um, that brings me to page 50 of your report,
which talks about public engagement
and public inclusion social license.
And you just mentioned that. Mm-hmm.
That too, which is usually important
because if I'm sitting down in the public right now
and this comes into my hands
and, you know, how rabbit hole explorers in this country
and around the world get to people read, will read this
and go, this is preparing us for orca, that
that's what people will read
because they're looking into, you know, uh, quantum physics,
quantum mathematics, all those kinds of things
that come in part of Fuller two and or so.
It's really a comment more than a question.
And that is, can I suggest that your public engagement,
'cause there's only a small part of it on page 50, uh,
it's gonna be ongoing, it's gonna be difficult.
And it's got to look like it is independent for New Zealand
and for the interests of New Zealand.
And it's easy for me to say it
'cause I'm leaving this place next week.
So I don't really care too much.
But for,
and uncle in this has been the challenge for armed services
and the Defense Force, and Tim knows as well,
is when you speak to someone in Qia,
they think this is all about guns and bullets.
Mm-hmm. Uh, and you've gotta sell a story
that I think will take New Zealand into 2035. Mm-hmm.
That's good. So, so, um, two things I'd say.
So as part of the scope,
we deliberately didn't look into any kind
of coalitions or anything.
This is a long term piece and so on.
So we didn't look at any, any of those.
However, coming to your point about the, um,
the public engagement public,
because this is a really key shift.
All three are very important shifts.
And if anything, yes, the, the, the, the thematic kind
of insights are hopefully interesting to you all.
But it's actually the three shifts
that we're gonna actually do things differently.
Um, on the public engagement, inclusion,
it's always been the case that defense needs
to maintain public public trust.
It's always been that. However, one thing
that the research showed was that, um, kind
of communicating traditional per um,
purchases was comparatively straightforward
because, um, their kind of functions and methods
and how they were gonna be used is relatively known.
Um, the gray ship is a gray ship, a gray ship.
And, and, and you know, when you are purchasing a, a ship of
that or a, an aircraft of that, what their capabilities are,
that can be, um, what they can do.
However, in a, in a world where we've got new software
and new software upgrades,
and particularly where a software upgrade can effectively
make a new or a significantly changed
or improved capability just through a software upgrade, um,
that is where it's gonna be less clear
to the public about what's happening there.
So we, we, we've stated that in the future,
defense forces will need
to be more proactive in communicating to the public
as their capabilities evolve,
particularly through the software.
And that is vital. Yeah. And
I think that is your point. Yeah.
Very good. Right.
I think that, um, will bring us to a close.
I think, uh, there's no time like the present
and the current geopolitical challenges, uh, to, uh,
be talking about future, um, capability
and interoperability in defense.
So, uh, we look forward to the work
that comes alongside this for future in discussions
with NZDF in the ministry.
Um, so thank you for your work.
Thank you for coming to talk to us and um, yeah, well done.
That's a valuable piece of work.
Thank you all.